Tickets to your favorite Pop events. All right here. Let's go.

Noteworthy Pop Concert Events

Pop fans looking for a fun live show have plenty of great options
throughout the year. Coachella is one of the biggest annual music
festivals in the states and often features major pop headliners. Past
acts have included Drake, David Guetta, and Hozier. The Sweetlife Music
Festival is another popular one that takes place each year in Maryland.
Of course, New York City’s Governor's Ball is one not to be missed pop
performers have included Lana Del Rey and Drake. The ASCAP Pop Music
Awards are held each year to honor top performers in the pop genre.

Pop Concert Schedule Information

Looking to see your favorite pop artists perform live? Concert schedules
can be found on most artist websites, so be sure to follow your
favorites on social media! Plenty of pop festivals take place each
summer, so check your local venues for the latest schedules. Most pop
artists have tour schedules and some even do residencies where they
perform each night for a scheduled period of time chances are, if you’re
looking to dance to some pop beats, there will be something going on
near you!

How much are Pop concert tickets?

The average Pop concert ticket is $200.00. Prices can vary based on
artist, seat location, day-of-week, as well as other factors.

Purchasing Pop Concert Tickets

Looking to score some pop concert tickets? SeatGeek is the best way to
browse, find, and buy concert tickets of all genres. To keep tabs on your
favorite artists and to make sure you never miss a show, be sure to
"track" artists and events on SeatGeek. To see ticket availability and
to get updates on ticket prices, visit your favorite artist’s page on
SeatGeek.
